Beast Handler
General Information
Game
Bloons TD 6 (v36.0)
Release Date
April 3, 2023
Class
Support Monkey
Unlocked at
Popping 3,000,000 (Bloons), "Unlock By Pops" selection, Level 30
Cost
$210 (Easy)
$250 (Medium)
$270 (Hard)
$300 (Impoppable)
Activated Ability(s)
T Rex Stomp
Giganotosaurus Stomp
Targeting Options
First, Last,
Close, Strong

Beast targeting (Place Beast)

Merge (when multiple Beast Handlers combine with their beasts to upgrade)
Hotkey
I
Other Names
BHandler, BH, Beast
Statistics
Damage
1
Pierce
4
Attack Speed
1.4s
Range
20 (itself range)
50 (control beast range)
Camo Detection
Yes (x-x-2, or x-4-x ability)
Footprint
7
Default Damage Type
 Energy
“	Trains land, water, or air beasts. Multiple Beast Handlers can have their own beasts, or combine efforts to train a single beast with greater beast power.	”
	~ In-game description	

The Beast Handler is a Support-class tower that was introduced in update 36.0. This monkey controls increasingly powerful beasts to pop bloons, and can merge with other Beast Handlers to increase the power of their Beasts. It is unlocked by accumulating 3,000,000 pops via the Gift Box. Before v44.0, it was unlocked after completing all 3 stages of the "Epic Beast Quest" that is unlocked at Level 40, accessible via Quests.

The base Beast Handler uses its staff to pop bloons, where it stabs up to 4 bloons with its staff every 1.4s, each hit dealing 1 damage ( energy), each attack ignores Line of Sight obstacles provided it can detect a bloon, and has 20 range, the smallest of any tower. It cannot be buffed by Alchemists and cannot be picked up by Support Chinook. It can, however, be placed on frozen water. The Beast Handler handles beasts that help stop the bloons, which are accessed by buying upgrades. Upon owning any beast, the base attack stops in order to focus on the beast(s). These beasts can be placed anywhere in its larger (50) range, essentially giving the tower two ranges. When two or more Beast Handlers are merged, the beasts can be placed inside of the range of connected Beast Handlers, similarly to Advanced Intel. Land and water beasts can share range among two or more handlers connected by being linked within range of each other, while flying beasts can fly within range of all contributing handlers across the screen.

Each upgrade path gives the Beast Handler access to different beasts: top path is water-based, middle path gives theropod beasts, and bottom path offers avian creatures. These beasts are each placed and targeted differently. Top path requires water to be placed or upgraded and can be moved anywhere, granted there is water. Middle path is placed on land and can be moved similarly to the top path. Bottom path is different; the birds can move anywhere in the Beast Handler's effective range, similarly to Etienne's drones, but can target where bloons are re-positioned. All of these actions are controlled by a green button next to the Beast Handler's portrait, the "Place Beast" button.

Beast Handlers can co-operate in a special networking system to merge weaker beasts into stronger beasts, upgrading them in the process. All beasts incorporate a unique energy system that allows merging of beasts of the same terrain, bigger and more powerful beasts costing more energy. By giving a beast more energy, it empowers all of the host beast's attacks. When at max energy, the beast gets a new skin. Beasts of the same terrain type can be merged into stronger or equal tier beasts to enhance the power of the host. 4 contributing handlers at Tier 4 are required in order to access the Tier 5 upgrades. After purchasing a Tier 5 upgrade, it is possible to keep the Tier 5 while still selling the merged Tier 4 Handlers, of course with the caveat of losing power for that Beast Handler. Having all three respective Tier 5 Beast Handlers active at maximum power will require at least 18 different Beast Handlers.

It costs $210 on Easy, $250 on Medium, $270 on Hard, and $300 on Impoppable.

Contents
1	Description
1.1	Merging
1.2	Place Beast
1.3	Targeting Priorities
2	Upgrades
2.1	Path 1
2.2	Path 2
2.3	Path 3
2.4	Total Cost
3	Full Popology
3.1	Statistics
3.2	Attack Interactions
3.3	Further Popology
4	Strategy
4.1	Summary
4.2	Tips
4.3	Beast Merge Mathematics
5	Monkey Knowledge
6	Rogue Legends
7	Version History
7.1	Balance Changes
7.2	Bug Fixes and General Changes
7.3	Bugs
8	Achievements
9	Pre-release teasers
10	Quotes
10.1	Pre-Release Quotes
10.2	Additional Quotes
11	Sounds
12	Gallery
12.1	Beast Handler Terrain Conditions
12.2	Overclock Interactions
12.3	Teasers
12.4	Official artwork
12.5	Videos
13	Trivia
13.1	Ninja Kiwi Blogs
14	References
Description

Beast Handler with its upgrade menu opened

The base Beast Handler carries a Beast Melee Staff and wears a colorful circular neck protector. They have their hair in dreadlocks in a ponytail that is tied back with a rope. It is a utility tower that can command beasts who fulfill different roles depending on the path. All tier 5 upgrades require a tier 4 Beast Handler merged with three of the same tier 4 Beast Handlers to purchase.

Path 1 involves increasingly large aquatic animals that require nearby water and focus on high single-target damage with some collateral damage. The first upgrade, Piranha, summons a small fish that leaps at bloons and bites them once. The next upgrade, Barracuda, deals more damage, can now hit multiple bloons, and can now slap bloons after biting with slight pushback. Great White lets it leap and bite onto MOAB-Class bloons, dealing more damage and thrashes multiple times, and can down bloons to instakill them, including MOABs at max power, once again thrashing to damage nearby bloons. Orca lets it instakill up to BFBs by default, and ZOMGs and DDTs at max power, alongside more damage and pierce. Megalodons can instakill up to BADs until round 150, and significantly improves its damage and pierce further.

Path 2 trains increasingly large land theropod dinosaurs that focus on generalized damage with a bonus against stunned bloons. The initial upgrade, Microraptor, swipes at bloons. The second upgrade, Adasaurus, lets it pop lead and improves damage and pierce. The next upgrade, Velociraptor, gives it a damage bonus to stunned bloons and improves damage, range, and pierce. Tyrannosaurus Rex gains more damage, range, and pierce, alongside the T Rex Stomp ability, which deals moderate damage to large quantities of bloons within range, hits camo, and stuns up to a ZOMG/DDT. Giganotosaurus further improves damage to stunned bloons, alongside stronger attacks and stomp gaining global range.

Path 3 handles increasingly large airborne birds with a focus on moving bloons across the track, and thus requires nearby track to upgrade. All birds will move bloons to wherever their handler's special targeting is set, allowing it to move bloons to different lanes. Tier 1, Gyrfalcon, picks up bloons and moves it to the target spot. The next upgrade, Horned Owl, gives camo detection, slightly more pierce, and lets it grab ceramic bloons, although only one at a time. The following upgrade, Golden Eagle, improves range and pierce, increases its maximum bonus damage, and the max Golden Eagle can move up to a single MOAB at a time. Giant Condor lets it move up to a BFB and makes its attack stronger. Pouākai lets it move ZOMGs and DDTs and further improves its attacks to deal much greater damage to all bloon types.

Merging
Main article: Merge

Merging process of a Microraptor into an Adasaurus

Beast Handlers can merge beasts into Tier 2 or above beasts, as these beasts each have more than 1 beast power. "Beast power" is essentially a unit of beast strength that builds up as the beast gains more tiers or is merged with more beasts of equal or lower tier (except Tier 5, which cannot accept other Tier 5 beasts).

As beasts gain higher power, their physical appearance changes at max power, and sometimes also at an intermediate amount of power not necessarily equal to halfway between min and max power. The following visual changes to the beasts occur at T2 and above:

T2: 3/6, 6/6
T3: 8/24, 16/24, 24/24
T4: 16/64, 36/64, 64/64
T5: 36/132, 100/132, 132/132
Place Beast
Main article: Place Beast

Place Beast buttons for a 0-1-1 Beast Handler

All Beast Handlers with at least one active beast each have one or two Place Beast button(s) that can be used to move around their respective beasts. It is similar to Manual Targeting. There are up to two of three targeting buttons that can be active for a Beast Handler: Place Fish, Place Dinosaur, and Target Bird. Each of these buttons place the beast of the given terrain, or repositions them if already placed. Placed beasts can be placed anywhere within range of the Beast Handler or within range of any contributing Beast Handlers. In the case of birds, the reticle controls where they fly back towards.

Repositioning aquatic or terrestrial species undergoes a 2s cooldown before the button refreshes again; this is to prevent players from abusing this button with macros. Moving the reticle of a bird has no virtual cooldown.

Targeting Priorities

The base Beast Handler uses the standard target priorities: First, Last, Close, Strong. All its attacks are dependent on its given target priority. If upgraded, the Beast Handler ceases its melee staff attack and replaces it with a networking system consisting of beasts, energy, and merging.

First: Targets the first bloon visible within its range.
Last: Targets the last bloon visible within its range.
Close: Targets the closest bloon visible within its range.
Strong: Targets the strongest bloon visible within its range.

Upon gaining a beast, the Beast Handler gains access to the Place Beast button, a green button that repositions a beast within valid range. Upon having at least one Tier 2+ beast, Beast Handlers can access the Merge button to merge their weaker beasts into stronger beasts of the same terrain.

Contributing handlers are treated differently in terms of how they accept targeting priorities. Essentially, they lose targeting priorities for their now-merged beast(s), and having no beasts left loses targeting priorities completely. If you merge a Beast Handler with another Handler in their Beast Placement range, you can move a beast in the combined range, essentially extending the placement range.

Upgrades

Note: Statistics listed on this section do not take into account additional stats via Beast Power.

Path 1
	PiranhaCOST: $135 / $160 / $175 / $190
UNLOCK: 250 XP


Description: Command a small but feisty little fish to leap from the water at the Bloons.
Effect:

Beast Handler: Requires water terrain within tower range to be purchasable. Summons a Piranha that leaps at Bloons within range. Can reposition the beast to a valid water location at a cooldown of 2s. Has 1 base Beast Power and 1 max Beast Power.
Piranha: Leaps onto bloons within range and bites them. Bites 1 target every 0.6s.
	BarracudaCOST: $690 / $810 / $875 / $970
UNLOCK: 500 XP


Description: The Barracuda slaps Bloons backwards and pops multiple layers with their razor sharp teeth. Base Beast Power increased to 3 and max Beast Power becomes 6. Bonus of 2 Beast Power compared to predecessor.
Effect:

Beast Handler: Transforms the Piranha into a Barracuda.
Barracuda: Bites multiple bloons and pushes Bloons back slightly. Deals 2 damage, 4 pierce, and range increased to 30 (from 25), with a biting radius of 8. At max power, has 4 damage and 10 pierce, plus much more attack speed.
	Great WhiteCOST: $1,710 / $2,010 / $2,170 / $2,410
UNLOCK: 1,000 XP


Description: The Great White will crush Bloons, including Lead Bloons in its jaws, dragging them back to the water if needed. At max Beast Power the Great White can drag down MOABs.
Effect:

Beast Handler: Transforms the Barracuda into a Great White Shark. Base Beast Power becomes 8, max Beast Power increased to 24. Bonus of 5 Beast Power compared to predecessor.
Great White: Great White latches onto any bloon target for upwards of 3 seconds, dragging it into the water if Ceramic or below. It thrashes its tail while doing so, repeatedly dealing splash damage. Attacks knock-back bloons and slow MOAB-Class, apart from BADs and bosses. Range increased from 30 to 40, splash radius of 15, hurls itself every 1.1s and splashes every 0.55s, the splash dealing 12 damage and 10 pierce. At max power, splash deals 24 damage and 30 pierce plus a much faster rate, and the Great White gains the capability to drag down MOABs (only with 1,000,000 RBE or less).
	OrcaCOST: $10,625 / $12,500 / $13,500 / $15,000
UNLOCK: 4,250 XP


Description: The mighty Orca's huge mouth can grab and drag all but the very largest Bloons into the depths. At max Beast Power the Orca can drag down ZOMGs.
Effect:

Beast Handler: Transforms the Great White into an Orca. 16 base power, 64 max power. Bonus of 8 Beast Power compared to predecessor.
Orca: The Orca can drag down MOABs and BFBs (with 1,000,000 RBE or less) by default. Splash deals 30 damage over 24 radius, knocks back bloons and blimps harder, and pierce of 20 at the same attack speed as the predecessor, and range increased to 40. At max power, splash has 90 damage and 60 pierce, and Orca gains the capability to drag down ZOMGs and visible DDTs (only with 1,000,000 RBE or less).
	MegalodonCOST: $38,250 / $45,000 / $48,600 / $54,000
UNLOCK: 100,000 XP


Description: A truly colossal shark with a taste for Bloon. Requires 3 additional Orca Handlers to control.
Effect:

Beast Handler: 3 other Orca Handlers are required to be merged with this tower for the upgrade to be purchasable. Transforms the Orca into a Megalodon. Base Beast Power becomes 84 (down to 36 if Orca Handlers are sold), with a minimum of 36 power and max of 132 power. Bonus of 20 Beast Power compared to predecessor.
Megalodon: Megalodon can drag down all non-Boss MOAB-Class Bloons (with 1,000,000 RBE or less), including BADs. Splash radius increased to 32 and range to 50, and can knockback MOAB-class with their 50% speed. Default Megalodon has 1,400 splash damage, 70 pierce, and ???s splash cooldown. Max Beast Power deals 2,100 damage and 90 pierce, and ???s splash cooldown.
Path 2
	MicroraptorCOST: $150 / $175 / $190 / $210
UNLOCK: 250 XP


Description: Command a sharp clawed little dinosaur.
Effect:

Beast Handler: Summon a Microraptor onto nearby land. Can reposition the beast to a valid land location at a cooldown of 2s. Has 1 base Beast Power and 1 max Beast Power.
Microraptor: Attacks bloons with its claws, deals 1 damage, attacks every 1.0s, and has 5 pierce and 20 range.
	AdasaurusCOST: $705 / $830 / $895 / $995
UNLOCK: 500 XP


Description: The sharp teeth of Adasaurus deal high short range damage that can tear through Lead.
Effect:

Beast Handler: Transforms the Microraptor into an Adasaurus. Base Beast Power increased to 3 and max Beast Power becomes 6. Bonus of 2 Beast Power compared to predecessor.
Adasaurus: Adasaurus can pop Frozen
