Bloons TD 6 on Steam Sign in Store Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Charts Community Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About Support Change language Get the Steam Mobile App View desktop website © Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy | Legal | Accessibility | Steam Subscriber Agreement | Refunds | Cookies STORE Home Discovery Queue Wishlist Points Shop News Charts COMMUNITY Home Discussions Workshop Market Broadcasts About SUPPORT Install Steam sign in | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Bahasa Melayu (Malay) BETA Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem All Games > Strategy Games > Bloons® Franchise > Bloons TD 6 Community Hub Bloons TD 6 Bloons TD 6 Developer Ninja Kiwi Publisher Ninja Kiwi Released 17 Dec, 2018 The Bloons are back and better than ever! Get ready for a massive 3D tower defense game designed to give you hours and hours of the best strategy gaming available. Recent Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (2,020) - 95% of the 2,020 user reviews in the last 30 days are positive. English Reviews: Overwhelmingly Positive (230,513) - 97% of the 230,513 user reviews for this game are positive. Release Date: 17 Dec, 2018 Developer: Ninja Kiwi Publisher: Ninja Kiwi Tags Popular user-defined tags for this product: Tower Defense Strategy Multiplayer Singleplayer Online Co-Op Co-op Family Friendly Casual 3D Cartoony Sandbox 2D Great Soundtrack Difficult Touch-Friendly Cute Funny Addictive Survival Action + Reviews All Reviews: English Reviews Overwhelmingly Positive (97% of 230,513) Recent Reviews: Recent: Overwhelmingly Positive (95% of 2,020) Sign in to add this item to your wishlist, follow it, or mark it as ignored Ratings Fantasy-Gewalt Includes Interactive Elements In-game purchases, Chance based in-game purchases, Online interactivity Age rating for: Germany Features Single-player Online Co-op Steam Achievements In-App Purchases Remote Play on Phone Remote Play on Tablet Family Sharing Languages : English and 20 more Interface Full Audio Subtitles English ✔ French ✔ Italian ✔ German ✔ Danish ✔ Finnish ✔ Japanese ✔ Korean ✔ Norwegian ✔ Portuguese - Brazil ✔ Russian ✔ Simplified Chinese ✔ Spanish - Latin America ✔ Swedish ✔ Traditional Chinese ✔ Turkish ✔ Polish ✔ Spanish - Spain ✔ Arabic ✔ Dutch ✔ Thai ✔ See all 21 supported languages View Steam Achievements (156) Includes 156 Steam Achievements View all 156 Title: Bloons TD 6 Genre: Strategy Developer: Ninja Kiwi Publisher: Ninja Kiwi Franchise: Bloons TD Release Date: 17 Dec, 2018 Visit the website X YouTube Discord View update history Read related news View discussions Find Community Groups Embed Links & info Check out the entire Bloons® collection on Steam Buy Bloons TD 6 13,79€ Add to Cart Buy Legion of Bloons Tower Defense Bundle BUNDLE (?) Includes 3 items: Bloons TD 6 , Legion TD 2 , Bloons TD 5 Bundle info -20% 35,97€ Add to Cart Add to Account Buy Ultimate Bloons Rush Tower Defense Bundle! BUNDLE (?) Includes 10 items: Kingdom Rush Origins , Kingdom Rush Vengeance , Bloons TD 5 , Bloons TD 5 - Top Gun Monkey Ace Skin , Bloons TD 5 - Tribal Boomerang Thrower Skin , Bl oons TD 5 - Fireworks Mortar Tower Skin , Bloons TD 5 - Navy Monkey Buccaneer Skin , Bloons TD 5 - Steampunk Monkey Sub Skin , Bloons TD 5 - UFO Heli Pilot Skin , Bloons TD 6 Show less … Show more Bundle info -10% 51,47€ Add to Cart Add to Account Content For This Game Browse all (3) New Bloons TD 6: Frontier Legends 10,25€ Bloons TD 6: Rogue Legends 9,75€ Bloons TD 6 Soundtrack 4,99€ 24,99€ Add all DLC to Cart View In-Game Items (5) Items available for this game 15,70€ 2,65€ 2,65€ 6,15€ 8,79€ Shop available items View Community Hub About This Game Craft your perfect defense from a combination of powerful Monkey Towers and awesome Heroes, then pop every last invading Bloon! Over a decade of tower defense pedigree and regular massive updates makes Bloons TD 6 a favorite game for millions of players. Enjoy endless hours of strategy gaming with Bloons TD 6! Regular updates! We release several updates every year with new characters, features, and gameplay. Boss Events! Fearsome Boss Bloons will challenge even the strongest defenses. Odysseys! Battle through a series of maps connected by their theme, rules, and rewards. Contested Territory! Join forces with other players and battle for territory against five other teams. Capture tiles on a shared map and compete on the leaderboards. Quests! Delve into what makes the Monkeys tick with Quests, crafted to tell tales and share knowledge. Trophy Store! Earn Trophies to unlock dozens of cosmetic items that let you customize your Monkeys, Bloons, animations, music, and more. Content Browser! Create your own Challenges and Odysseys, then share them with other players and check out the most liked and played community content. 25 powerful Monkey Towers Each with 3 upgrade paths and unique activated abilities. Paragons! Explore the incredible power of the newest Paragon upgrades. 17 diverse Heroes With 20 signature upgrades and 2 special abilities. Plus, unlockable skins and voiceovers! 4-Player Co-Op! Play every map and mode with up to 3 other players in public or private games. Play anywhere Single player offline works even when your WiFi doesn’t! 70+ handcrafted maps With more added every update. Monkey Knowledge! Over 100 meta-upgrades to add power where you need it. Powers and Insta Monkeys! Earned through gameplay, events, and achievements. Instantly add power for tricky maps and modes. We pack as much content and polish into each update as possible, and we’ll continue to add new features, content, and challenges in regular updates. We truly respect your time and support, and we hope Bloons TD 6 will be the best strategy game you’ve ever played. If it’s not, please contact us at  and tell us what we can do better! Now those Bloons aren't going to pop themselves... sharpen your darts and go play Bloons TD 6! ********* Ninja Kiwi Notes Please review our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You will be prompted in-game to accept these terms in order to cloud save and protect your game progress. Bloons TD 6 contains in-game items that can be purchased with real money. You can disable in-app purchases in your device's settings, or reach us through Support for help. Your purchases fund our development updates and new games, and we sincerely appreciate every vote of confidence you give us with your purchases. Ninja Kiwi Community We love hearing from our players, so please get in touch with any feedback, positive or negative. Streamers and Video Creators: Ninja Kiwi is actively promoting channel creators on YouTube and Twitch! If you are not already working with us, keep making videos and tell us about your channel! System Requirements Windows macOS Minimum: Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system OS: Windows 10 (64bit) Processor: 1.5Ghz or better (x86-64) Memory: 4096 MB RAM Graphics: OpenGL 2.0 compatible, ATI, Nvidia or Intel HD Storage: 2048 MB available space Sound Card: Windows compatible sound card Recommended: Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system OS: Windows 10 (64bit) Processor: 2Ghz or better (x86-64) Memory: 8192 MB RAM Graphics: OpenGL 2.0 compatible, ATI, Nvidia or Intel HD Storage: 4096 MB available space Sound Card: Windows compatible sound card Minimum: OS: OSX 11.0 Processor: 1.5Ghz or better (64 bit) Memory: 4096 MB RAM Graphics: Metal Storage: 2048 MB available space Sound Card: Mac compatible Recommended: OS: OSX 11.0 or newer Processor: 2Ghz or better (64 bit) Memory: 8192 MB RAM Graphics: Metal Storage: 4096 MB available space Sound Card: Mac compatible © 2018 Ninja Kiwi Limited. Bloons is a registered trademark of Ninja Kiwi Limited. View all What Curators Say 937 Curators have reviewed this product. Click here to see them. Review Filters You can use this widget-maker to generate a bit of HTML that can be embedded in your website to easily allow customers to purchase this game on Steam. Enter up to 375 characters to add a description to your widget: Create widget Copy and paste the HTML below into your website to make the above widget appear Popular user-defined tags for this product: (?) Sign In Sign in to add your own tags to this product. Sign In